CSS and HTML
Nathan Coxson
9/17/2023

HTML:

    Basic File Structure:

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>

    </html>

    <head>: tag that includes header information for the page

        Includes things like links and title for the page.
    
    <body>: tag that contains the content on the page.

    Text Tags:

        h1, h2, h3, ...: 

            Header tags that have different relative sizing with h1 being the largest.

        p:

            Paragraph tag that is used for most normal sized text on the page.

    Divs:

        <div> tags are used to wrap elements and group them together.

    Forms:

        <form> tag wraps the form which can hold many different inputs.

        Inputs each have name and value attributes so that they can be accessed
        when the form is submitted.

    Links:

        <a> tag with an href attribute is used for a link.

    There are a variety of other useful tags like img, ul, etc., that are used for other things as well.

CSS:

    CSS is used to style the elements in the HTML file.

    Styles can be written in-line with the elements, in a style tag within the HTML file, or imported
    from a CSS file using a link tag in the HTML file.

    Basic syntax for a style rule in CSS:

        p {
            font-size: 10px;
            color: black;
            font-weight: bold;
            ...
        }

    Selectors:

        Elements can be selected by writing the element like: p

        Classes can be selected by prepending a . like: .className

        Id can be selected by prepending a # like: #idName
        
        Keep in mind that each element can only have one ID but multiple classes.
        Classes should be used over other selectors where possible.

        Combining selectors:

            .class1.class2 will select elements with both classes
            
            .class1 .class2 will select all elements with class2 that have an ancestor with class1

            .class1, .class2 will apply the styles to both class1 and class2 without having to write duplicate styles
    
    There are many differnet styling options for each element that you can edit.

    Sizing:

        Many elements can be sized using different units.

        Pixels can be used as a unit using px after a number.

        There are several relative units that can be used which make it easier to
        keep the sizing of elements consistent throughout the page.

            Examples: rem, em, % can be used for some elements, etc.
    
    Box-Model:

        Each element in HTML has a box that it is contained in.

        Moving from the inside out you have the content box, padding box, border box, and margin box.

    Flex-Box:

        Flex box is a display method that is useful for div elements.

        It allows you to easily position and partition a div so that the elements within are layed out properly.

        For example you can easily center the content, set the spacing between elements, etc.